---
title: Immune receptor repertoires in pediatric and adult acute myeloid leukemia
subtitle: J. Zhang, X. Hu, J. Wang, A. Das Sahu, D. Cohen, J. Fan, B. Wang, J. Fu, S. Gu, M. Sade-Feldman, N. Hacohen, W. Li, X. Ying, B. Li, X.S. Liu
herf: "https://genomemedicine.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s13073-019-0681-3"

caption:
  title: Immune receptor repertoires in pediatric and adult acute myeloid leukemia
  subtitle: J. Zhang, X. Hu, J. Wang, A. Das Sahu, D. Cohen, J. Fan, B. Wang, J. Fu, S. Gu, M. Sade-Feldman, N. Hacohen, W. Li, X. Ying, B. Li, X.S. Liu
  thumbnail: assets/img/portfolio/1.png
---
**Abstract**

**Background:** Acute myeloid leukemia (AML), caused by the abnormal proliferation of immature myeloid cells inthe blood or bone marrow, is one of the most common hematologic malignancies. Currently, the interactionsbetween malignant myeloid cells and the immune microenvironment, especially T cells and B cells, remain poorlycharacterized.

**Methods:** In this study, we systematically analyzed the T cell receptor and B cell receptor (TCR and BCR) repertoiresfrom the RNA-seq data of 145 pediatric and 151 adult AML samples as well as 73 non-tumor peripheral blood samples.

**Results:** We inferred over 225,000 complementarity-determining region 3 (CDR3) sequences in TCRα,β,γ,andδchains and 1,210,000 CDR3 sequences in B cell immunoglobulin (Ig) heavy and light chains. We found higher clonalexpansion of both T cells and B cells in the AML microenvironment and observed many differences between pediatricand adult AML. Most notably, adult AML samples have significantly higher level of B cell activation and more secondaryIg class switch events than pediatric AML or non-tumor samples. Furthermore, adult AML with highly expanded IgA2 Bcells, which might represent an immunosuppressive microenvironment, are associated with regulatory T cells andworse overall survival.

**Conclusions:** Our comprehensive characterization of the AML immunereceptor repertoires improved our understandingof T cell and B cell immunity in AML, which may provide insights into immunotherapies in hematological malignancies.

**Keywords:** Acute myeloid leukemia, T cell receptor repertoires, B cell receptor repertoires, Complementarity-determiningregion 3

{:.list-inline}
- Genome Medicine
- Date: 2019
