---
title: Landscape of B cell immunity and related immune evasion in human cancers
subtitle:
herf: 'https://www.nature.com/articles/s41588-018-0339-x'

caption:
  title: Landscape of B cell immunity and related immune evasion in human cancers
  subtitle: X. Hu*, J. Zhang*, J. Wang, J. Fu, T. Li, X. Zheng, B. Wang, S. Gu, P. Jiang, J. Fan, X. Ying, J. Zhang, M.C. Carroll, K.W. Wucherpfennig, N. Hacohen, F. Zhang, P. Zhang, J.S. Liu, B. Li, X.S. Liu
  thumbnail: assets/img/portfolio/2.png
---
X. Hu&#42;, **J. Zhang&#42;**, J. Wang, J. Fu, T. Li, X. Zheng, B. Wang, S. Gu, P. Jiang, J. Fan, X. Ying, J. Zhang, M.C. Carroll, K.W. Wucherpfennig, N. Hacohen, F. Zhang, P. Zhang, J.S. Liu, B. Li, X.S. Liu

{:.list-inline}
- Nat Genet 51, 560–567 (2019).

**Abstract**

Tumor-infiltrating B cells are an important component in the microenvironment with unclear anti-tumor impacts. We enhanced our previous computational algorithm TRUST to extract the B cell immunoglobulin (Ig) hypervariable regions from bulk tumor RNA-seq data. TRUST assembled over 30 million complementarity-determining region 3(CDR3s) of the B cell heavy chain (IgH)from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA). Widespread B cell clonal expansions and Ig subclass switch events were observed in diverse human cancers. Prevalent somatic copy number alterationsin MICA and MICB genes related to antibody-dependent cell mediated cytotoxicity (ADCC) were identified in tumors with elevated B cell activity. IgG3-1 subclass switch interacts with the B cell receptor affinity maturation and defects in the ADCC pathway. Comprehensive pan-cancer analyses of tumor-infiltrating B cell receptor repertoires identified novel tumor immune evasion mechanisms through genetic alterations. The IgH sequences identified here are potentially useful resources for future development of immunotherapies.
