---
title: Up-regulation of FAM64A promotes epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition and enhances stemness features in breast cancer cells
subtitle: J. Zhang, L. Qian, J. Wu, D. Lu, H. Yuan, W. Li, X. Ying, S. Hu
image: assets/img/portfolio/4.png
alt: 

caption:
  title: Up-regulation of FAM64A promotes epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition and enhances stemness features in breast cancer cells
  subtitle: J. Zhang, L. Qian, J. Wu, D. Lu, H. Yuan, W. Li, X. Ying, S. Hu
  thumbnail: assets/img/portfolio/4.png
---
**Abstract**FAM64A was found to be markedly up-regulated in tumor samples and associated with worse overall survival in multiple cancer types, including breast cancer. However, the functional significance of FAM64A in breast cancer remains largely unknown. In this study, we systematically investigated the expression of FAM64A in multiple public breast cancer datasets. We found that FAM64A is significantly positively correlated with tumor stemness index in breast cancer samples, corresponding with an advanced clinical grade, metastasis and unfavorable prognosis. In vitro experiments further showed an up-regulation of stemness genes after over-expressing FAM64A in breast cancer cells. FAM64A overexpression also promoted breast cancer cell proliferation, migration, accompanied by the activation of epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT). Besides, we identified a strong association of FAM64A expression with TP53 mutations in TCGA and three additional breast cancer datasets. In summary, our study revealed a novel function of FAM64A in promoting breast cancer stemness and EMT, suggesting that targeting of FAM64A may have therapeutic values in advanced breast cancer.

**Background:** 

**Methods:** 

**Results:** 

**Conclusions:** 

**Keywords:** 

{:.list-inline}
- Date: 2019
