---
title: Investigation of Antigen-Specific T-Cell Receptor Clusters in Human Cancers
subtitle: H. Zhang, L. Liu, J. Zhang, J. Chen, J. Ye, S. Shukla, J. Qiao, X. Zhan, H. Chen, C. Wu, Y. Fu, B. Li
image: assets/img/portfolio/1.png
alt: 

caption:
  title: Investigation of Antigen-Specific T-Cell Receptor Clusters in Human Cancers
  subtitle: H. Zhang, L. Liu, J. Zhang, J. Chen, J. Ye, S. Shukla, J. Qiao, X. Zhan, H. Chen, C. Wu, Y. Fu, B. Li
  thumbnail: assets/img/portfolio/1.png
---
**Abstract**

**Purpose:** Cancer antigen–specific T cells are key components in antitumor immune response, yet their identification in the tumor microenvironment remains challenging, as most cancer antigens are unknown. Recent advance in immunology suggests that similar T-cell receptor (TCR) sequences can be clustered to infer shared antigen specificity. This study aims to identify antigen-specific TCRs from the tumor genomics sequencing data. 

**Experimental Design:**  We used the TRUST (Tcr Repertoire Utilities for Solid Tissue) algorithm to assemble the TCR hypervariable CDR3 regions from 9,700 bulk tumor RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq) samples, and developed a computational method, iSMART, to group similar TCRs into antigen-specific clusters. Integrative analysis on the TCR clusters with multi-omics datasets was performed to profile cancer-associated T cells and to uncover novel cancer antigens.

**Results:** Clustered TCRs are associated with signatures of T-cell activation after antigen encounter. We further elucidated the phenotypes of clustered T cells using single-cell RNA-seq data, which revealed a novel subset of tissue-resident memory T-cell population with elevated metabolic status. An exciting application of the TCR clusters is to identify novel cancer antigens, exemplified by our identification of a candidate cancer/testis gene, HSFX1, through integrated analysis of HLA alleles and genomics data. The target was further validated using vaccination of humanized HLA-A*02:01 mice and ELISpot assay. Finally, we showed that clustered tumor-infiltrating TCRs can differentiate patients with early-stage cancer from healthy donors, using blood TCR repertoire sequencing data, suggesting potential applications in noninvasive cancer detection. 

**Conclusions:**  Our analysis on the antigen-specific TCR clusters provides a unique resource for alternative antigen discovery and biomarker identification for cancer immunotherapies.

**Keywords:** 

{:.list-inline}
- Date: 2020
